so we started a production company
called tread Lively Productions and our
first film is coming out September 28th
in theaters and it's called the Blind
and it's interesting that we've had so
much of a conversation about Willie's
dad Phil because that is really what
this movie is about is is Phil and K
story and you know we've talked a lot
about kind of the success of it and you
know what happened after but this is the
story before we chose to go back and
tell the hard days you know the hard
parts of the story because I think you
know think people can discount
themselves and thinks oh I'm out because
I didn't do this or I didn't do this
right but instead God uses the people
who are weak but that that surrender
their lives to
[Music]
him hello everyone watching and
listening today I'm speaking with
authors entrepreneurs and the stars of
Duck Dynasty Willie and Corey
Robertson we discussed Faith and family
values as they were presented in the
show and how they were preserved behind
the scenes we also explore the balance
between reality and fiction structure
and playful spontaneity that was
captured on Duck Dynasty and the true
positive impact the show had on viewers
as well as the general culture of the
United States and abroad during and
since its phenomenal 11 season run so
why do you think
that what you did struck a cord with
people so deeply and one that was able
to be
maintained well I think there's probably
a couple of reasons for that um I think
people saw parts of their family and our
family and so I think it resonated
especially across Generations
um just had a lot of people say wow my
dad's similar to your dad or my mom's
just like your mom or we've got a crazy
uncle and so I think that was one of
them I think it was funny and so I think
people like to laugh and have fun and
also think the faith aspect uh was a big
part of it with the the prayer at the
end it wasn't overtly religious but it
was it was wholesome I guess so what
role do you think the faith
played I think it played a really big
role I think that um you know we are we
ended every episode around the dinner
table and we set a prayer and we really
didn't have any grand scheme for that we
just did it because it's kind of what
our family does and so um we set a
prayer and that just had such an impact
on people I feel like that's the most
common thing people commented on
whenever as we've like traveled the
world and seeing that's the most thing
people commented on it was just this um
one is just sitting around the table and
being grateful for what's before you you
know it was just this idea that um you
know we would submit to to God and give
gratefulness give thankfulness to him
before we have a meal and I think it um
also Willie mentioned that Nostalgia I
think there was this kind of like oh
back to something that we've lost as a
country as a people and whenever we did
the show I think that um you know the
network the executives thought that you
know we were going to look at be this
like Louisiana family that's so
different and unique and that we hunt
for a living and we eat squirrels and
all this and that people would maybe
look at us and be like oh they're so
different and and outside of the norm or
whatever but instead people actually
looked at us and were like oh that's
like my family or that's like my family
used to be or or that is something that
I long for in our family is to be able
to kind of come together at the end of
the day around a around the dinner table
well particularly like I think in the
aspect when you say that's where we used
to be if you're sitting around a table
where we ended every episode I think
people would see that going wow we never
sit together and eat you know we're
always running and gunning and grabbing
fast food and so I think they saw them
were like wow maybe we did that at a
holiday or growing up and so that was
one of the parts where I felt like they
were like oh maybe they didn't say a
prayer or maybe they used to or maybe
they heard about it so um so I think
they kind of really enjoyed that kind of
like ah we like even if they don't do it
they could they so some of them did and
said hey we've changed our whole
structure now we sit down and we eat
together and so uh but they could kind
of see that and so I do think it was
kind of a throwback you know um it was
really interesting to to me because I
think we we made this it was a funny
show it was like a sitcom you know it
was a funny show about our family but it
impacted people in really powerful ways
people would you know come up in tears
saying like like now my family eats
dinner together because of your show or
my husband goes to church now because he
saw real men that just love God and can
be normal people you know and things
like or I watched it with my dad who had
cancer and it just brought us joy and
laughter and positivity and hope in a
time that was like a darkest time of our
life hi everybody I've invited Douglas
Murray and Bjorn lomberg and Jonathan
Paso who are three of the most admirable
and deepest thinkers I know to join me
on stage to talk about a vision of the
future that isn't based on apocalyptic
fear mongering and the desire to acrew
power that's a consequence of utilizing
that fear we've sold out the seats that
we arranged to have opened already and
now we've opened up more seats and maybe
we can fill the entire place which would
be quite the remarkable um occurrence
anyways that is on November 1 first if
you want to come to the O2 and hear our
discussion do so get your tickets I
remember I read a couple of years ago I
think that 30% of people in the UK 30%
of households now have no dining room
table so people don't eat together and
as a
psychologist it's very interesting to me
to consider the role of the table in the
union of families and in the the
socialization of children I mean first
of all people human beings do something
very strange at a table and it's so
normal in some ways that no one notices
it but human beings are really the only
animals that formally share food it's a
very strange thing to do I mean even if
you have a dog that loves you he's
generally not that happy if you try to
take his bone away at his dinner dish I
mean the carnivore comes back out and so
the fact that people can actually share
food and that they can do that even when
they're hungry that is really quite the
miracle and so the fact that and then
it's also the case that at the dinner
table let's say that's when you get to
share your day you each get to talk and
to listen you that's a very good place
to inculcate manners into your children
it's a good place for everybody to keep
track of everyone else and what's going
on in their day and their week and so
forth and and it's a good time for
everyone to come together and discuss
the separate elements of their life
right and in the Old Testament there's
an immense emphasis on Hospitality as
the grounds of morality itself and the
hospitality to a stranger but the same
thing applies within your family and So
within our family and so you know it's
interesting you know you said that your
producers were convinced that you your
family in some sense would be uh an
audity you know out of the norm and I
guess one of the things they didn't
consider was that not only in some ways
were you guys not out of the norm but
the actual Norm but even more than that
you represented a kind of nostalgic
ideal and obviously that was centered at
least in part around the dinner table
and around prayer and then you said also
that it gave you a chance like the meal
time prayer it gave you a chance to be
grateful and uh that that really struck
me as interesting too because one of the
things that people don't really
understand about prayer they think about
it as a kind of a wish let's say is that
it's actually a
practice and you can practice being
grateful and the reason you should
practice being grateful is first of all
then you notice what you have to be
grateful about and if your foot isn't
caught in a bear trap while you're dying
of cancer you have plenty to be grateful
for and so practicing that makes you
much more aware of it but is also a
really good way of staving off
resentment and so it's striking to me
that how much impact the fact that you
guys sat around the table and all talked
together and that you started that off
with a let's say a prayer of gratitude
it's really striking to me how much of
an effect that had on your audience and
the fact that also people used that as a
model what what did you conclude from
that it must have been surprising to you
right to have that to have that have
that impact it really was uh because to
us it just seemed like a small part of
life that that we've done thousands of
times so I didn't really I guess I
thought most people would would be like
oh they're saying a prayer and that's
that's what we all do and so I was what
was striking to me is that a lot of
people um didn't do that and so or or
like I said they used to do that or they
didn't do that and I was like wow that's
um and it had this big impact on them
you know it was like that's really
helped our family and I was like wow
that's you know what seemed like just a
small thing um but that but the dinner
table was a big part to us even growing
up that was a big part of of of the you
know just our whole family it's where we
you know it's kind of it was almost like
a big TV show now that maybe that like
you would all around that to us that was
dinner one because we were hungry and
I'm not sure Dr Peters said we me and my
brothers were a little more animalistic
I don't know that we'd like to share
food so we were more like uh canines
like trying to uh I remember when Cory
and I started dating she was like I've
never seen anyone eat as fast as you and
it was because I was like you better get
it quickly because it'll be gone and so
she was like you can slow down we can
just eat and enjoy this they had four
boys and not a lot of money growing up
and they ate you know they ate all the
home-cooked meals because they lived on
the river and um he said whenever they
would order pizza which was like a a
treat to get pizza they would lick the
pieces so well I'm telling on you they
would lick the pieces so they you you
had to have one you could only have one
hand on one piece while you were eating
so that was it and we would just lick a
little something cuz something about
licking the food made no one else want
to eat it at all so that was a it was
some kind of animalistic thing yeah that
we figured out yeah I I remember I
invited one of my friends over uh from
he was from a backwoods town up in
Northern Alberta called Crooked Creek
man and it was it was quite the place it
had been scraped out of the Prairie just
about 40 years previously and there were
feuds going on in that back country and
uh he'd grown up in kind of a
competitive eating environment as well
and I invited him over for Thanksgiving
dinner once we moved out east and I
invited him over in to Montreal and the
poor guy he filled up a pretty major
Thanksgiving plate because we had quite
a feast and I think he was completely
done eating before everyone else had
even filled their plates and I I'd often
seen him polish off a hot dog in two
bites and he was in the same unfortunate
circumstances as you were surrounded by
brothers who were going to devour
everything ravenously every chance they
got so that poor guy I don't think he
ever tasted anything it just went
immediately from tooth to stomach
without you know without enter any
intermediating enjoyment so anyways
hopefully things have slowed down on the
eating front for you guys now you also
mentioned um and this is something you
know that I've noticed about a couple of
other shows I really like I like uh The
Simpsons I was a great fan of The
Simpsons their first 13 seasons were
staggeringly brilliant and comedic as
far as I was concerned and I also like
this insane vulgar horrible brutal nasty
Canadian show called The Trailer Park
Boys which is like a workingclass
phenomenon in Canada and uh you know
it's rough and it's funny but both those
shows and they're both satirical one of
the things that holds them together is
that the characters in the shows have a
genuine Bond of familial love so Homer
Simpson for all his flaws and he's
pretty much 100% composed of flaws is
someone who truly is in his bumbling way
as devoted as he possibly can be to his
family and um in the Trailer Park Boys
these three Naro well criminal types
basically who the show is about um and
their two enemies they're bound together
too by a a filial bond that's actually
quite genuine and one of the things that
made both those shows popular is that
strange com combination of satirical
humor that's and the ability of the
characters in some ways to tear at each
other but also to be bound inside this
you know this this this this genuine
what would you say structure of love and
mutual regard and it I guess it's
something like the optimal balance
between cooperation and competition you
know and the humor humor seems to to
play on that proper balance as well you
know and you can tolerate a lot of
biting humor which is a really nice
thing if you know that the people that
are joking at you and proding at you do
have your back and actually like you
so your show seems to have that sort of
element as well I I hope I've got that
accurately represented I think so I
think that's probably exactly right I
think we there was a profound love and
for each other we had our back however
uh we we we don't we try not take
ourselves very seriously and so we
really we can see someone and and go
after that person um but like I said
there's a love there and in fact we did
it so much so that when we would be out
in public it like people would come up
to me and be angry with me and be like
how dare you say that to your mom or
your uncle or you know I just was like
we're fine we're good like we think it's
really funny and uh but some people
would be like wow uh but we've I I guess
the Robertson we've always kind of had
that we can we can we can make fun of
ourselves and really go after each other
um and I don't know whe whether it was
to prepare you know cuz you know when
you're at school when you're in the
world you know people are going to say
all kind of nasty stuff and so we just
kind of were like I don't know if we
were preparing each other for that but
like it's coming so well also I think we
kind of got together as a family not
kind of we actually did we set around
the table together as a family before
the show started and just kind of laid
out some things and one I think yes we
were surprised by the impact but also we
did really pray about the impact you
know we actually did come together as a
family and said like we we hope that
this you know brings glory to God we
hope that this is a beautiful like
blessing to families and to our family
as well and if it's not just take it
away you know we we actually kind of
went into it with that intention and
then also we said we want take our too
seriously and you know you know how
reality shows can be and there's these
interviews and things like that and we
just said we're not going to get
offended by anything anybody says we're
just going to have fun with this and let
it be fun and not get offended and I
don't think anybody ever did there was
nothing on the show that anybody ever
said to one another or about one another
got offended by it we just we had fun
with it but it was a unique reality show
where it was shot like Cory men it was
shot like a sitcom so it wasn't just
running gun cameras like it was it was
it was like a Sit gum like I would enter
the office and hello I'm here you know
and so it really was shot like that but
we were we really ourselves and so it
was a strange mix of how to do it but it
was it was fun because we always kind of
knew like okay we we you know we got to
have a beginning a middle and an end
like a siton like life doesn't happen
like that so it was just kind of a smash
of reality with kind of playing along
some and um maybe I used storytelling
yeah and storytelling so I call it
guided reality so so so how did you
manage that combination of scripting and
spontaneity it seems like a very
difficult thing to pull off especially I
presume that before you engaged in the
Duck Dynasty series you guys weren't
actors and you didn't have a lot of
experience while certainly producing
like a half scre scripted family sitcom
so how did you manage to keep it funny
and spontaneous at the same time that
you managed to impose some sort of
narrative structure on it and who was
responsible for that how did you do that
it was just Talent from
God oh my humility is that the right
order I really you know I mean for me it
was about I'd watch shows and so what I
thought was funny
um and like Seinfeld or you know I watch
shows I was like oh that's really funny
how they did that and so I tried to just
do that remain in myself um I kind of
had to stay in one spot um I talked to a
lady at at at A&E who was just brilliant
and um uh Lily and she wasn't even from
America which blew me away that she uh
she's from Argentina came here was
working with American
television to not even grow up here but
to figure out the nuances of people from
the South and how that's funny that
would go across America really just blew
me away but she always said like you're
the boss which which I am uh so you have
to be the boss and so I couldn't stray
very very far from from that because
that's what makes it funny because
people get in trouble and and I would I
would be like oh I want to goof off and
she'd be like you have to you know you
have to be the boss and so um so I would
come there so the really there was that
Dynamic that that really makes comedy
kind of like when you're like when
you're in school and someone says
something that you're not supposed to
laugh at or church and it's so fun you
can't help but laugh and so it was kind
of that idea and so once we kind of got
that Dynamic which was a real Dynamic I
mean I'm I was the CEO of the company uh
but I'm I'm not the oldest and so it
wasn't my father so there was some kind
of strange things there the Dynamics of
the company because it was like dad's
company but I was the boss and and
that's what they walked in with it's
like what do we got here okay Will's
running it but I'm the third from the
top and as as far as siblings dad's not
in charge dad's kind of doing his own
thing and so once we got the Dynamics
and then we just we just kind of plugged
it in and said y'all go you know what
would happen if and we would talk about
frustrations where the guys would want
to fart around or they always want to go
hunting they didn't want to be up there
actually making the duck CS which was a
common theme and then we just kind of
went with that and just you know it
reminds me again of this show I
mentioned earlier the Trailer Park Boys
where each of the people who are
involved have adopted a pretty stable
character you know you know more or less
what their role is and what to expect
from them but then that gives them
tremendous latitude to improvise and so
the Trailer Park Boys in some ways like
your show is a mock documentary in
principle this camera crew is following
these nar wells around all the time and
fair Fair bit of it scripted but a fair
bit of it is spontaneous and it's often
extremely witty I also know that guy
Richie you know the British film actor
who's or a director who's made a number
of brilliant absolutely brilliant films
you know what he does is he I've talked
to him about this he's he sets up the
stage and the set and he primes the
actors and they know the story and then
they improvise the dialogue and that's
so cool because one of the things that
really makes Richie's movies remarkable
is the Brilliance and harshness of the
doc of the dialogue and you know he gets
his actors to play along and he really
likes to work with the actors that can
do that and then and then the other
thing that it reminds me of is what
children do when they pretend you know
so children start to pretend play when
they're about three years old that's
when they start playing with other
children in in a real Manner and the way
they'll do that you know is they'll
they'll take a scenario that's somewhat
typical like a household uh structure
because children often play house and
they'll assign rules and they'll
basically lay out a script idea that
everybody has to agree on and then they
improvise and that's actually what the
pretend play is and if the kids if it's
going well and the kids are friends they
can get right into it and they can do
that for hours and what they're doing is
simulating reality and experimenting
with roles and and also trying to be
funny and amuse each other and so I
wonder did you have I don't know if the
pretense the child pretense idea has
ever occurred to you before did you ever
have any sense that you said what you
were doing was fun and it stayed playful
did you ever have any sense that you had
returned to the sorts of things that
children do when they're when they're
very
young I love that analogy cuz I do think
that's it sounds exactly like really
what we did
um but I never thought of it that way
but yeah it really that is true and I
think with with with this show you had
some some really strong personalities
and so you had some uh probably you know
if you were kids you'd be like you're
the bad guy you know and then you're the
good guy and you're the horse or
whatever it would be so with this one
you had some just great um really strong
defining character so so like yeah had
my father who was like um the patriarch
but really strong but not just you know
he's not goofy dad like this guy's like
really strong and really opinionated and
then his brother MOS Sai I don't need a
knife I don't need a sensor Direction I
don't even need clothes funny and just
the most one of the most unusual guys
I've ever seen like as far as and the
quickness he has and how he tells
stories is just epic and so you had him
that you just never know you could
almost play off him like he could kind
of just do whatever he did so it was
like he would do that Dad would do that
and then I would go like oh this is
perfect you know uh I'm just going to
come off this and you know if Dad's
really overplaying it you know I'd be
like you know Dad that that's we can't
do you know so I could just kind of play
off of where they went or unle S but
Uncle Sai you could like like I would
feed him a line like say you know
especially with pop culture that
wouldn't make sense that he would know
that and he was so brilliant he could
just take what he would hear and then he
would throw it in there like he thought
of it you know he would he would say
like a I remember went to like a Beyonce
S I said sa sa say if you love it you
better put a ring on it and and so sa
would be talking and be like hey Jack if
you love it you better put a ring on it
it would just come in there and and then
the editing would stop it's like did he
just say that and it was so brilliant
and then if he screwed it up it was even
funnier um one time I gave him a song uh
called uh uh This Is How We Do It by
Montel Williams so then s goes hey this
is the way that that we do it which was
totally incorrect but it was so funny
because then the audience like he tried
to do it but he didn't do it but it but
we really thought you know he just came
up with that or whatever and um you know
I think uh I was talking to uh uh Bill
Clinton one time and and and Bill
Clinton like pulls me in you know and I
understood why these guys can become
president because he like he puts his
hand on my shoulder and and he he said I
love Duck Dynasty and for whatever
reason I said you don't watch Duck
Dynasty I don't know why I I don't why I
took that aggressive like opposite
approach to him and he looks at me and
he goes you want to know why that show
worked and I was like yeah I would love
to know why Bill Clinton thought this
show worked and the answer he gave was
not just the best political answer ever
cuz he covered every deal he said cuz it
was real and he's looking at me he said
it's real and I was thinking to myself
and I and I went and he went but if it
wasn't real we thought it was real and
and so I was like there you go so he
really he was like that's why we bought
into it and and if it wasn't you fooled
us but we got it so well also I think
that as we were doing this and playing
these roles we were also having to play
ourselves so we were like oh I have to
walk around as Corey so I have to it has
to represent who I am so that first
season there was a lot of kind of
fighting through okay what pieces of
this is storytelling and is is pushing
the story along and what pieces of it
are us and who we are and so I do think
that was a a fine line to try to find
and you know early Seasons I remember
one specific scene there was a there's a
scene where Willie and the guys were
supposed to come to the kids school
instead of doing that they they skipped
out and went golfing and so they come in
for that evening and we're with Phill
and Kay Willie's parents and my
sister-in-law and I are sitting there
and and in the scene the plan was for us
to just kind of let our guys have it you
know because they had skipped out on
what they were supposed to do they're
coming in and it just we couldn't do it
because we're like we would never let
our husbands have it in front of their
parents like we just wouldn't do that
and they wouldn't do that to us like
they wouldn't you know but they came in
in front of our parents they wouldn't
just lay into us you know and so you
know the as as it plays out the
directors are like come on just let them
have it aren't you mad that they you
know skipped out and and I was just like
we just we wouldn't have this
conversation right here we can't do this
you know this is I'm this is who I am
and I can't do it and so we U we ended
up just kind of like scrapping that
scene and we they said well what would
you they caught y with some dirty y just
gave us we some dirty looks yeah they
said what they edited a bunch of dirty
looks so they were like what would you
do and they said Well we'd have this
conversation that night in our own home
you know and so we come that night that
evening and we filmed a whole another
scene in our kitchen where Willie walks
in and I kind of tell him a little bit
what I thought about it and there was a
lot of discussion back and forth with
the producers you know as we were making
it because you've got to be open you
know you can't just say this is it so
you got to be open uh because even back
to the beginning of the show where Corey
said I she said I think your family
should do a reality TV show and I was
like we're just normal people like I
didn't see it at all and and Cory's like
Willie y'all aren't normal like the Y
cuz she because I knew I appreciate that
cuz she married into this family I like
y'all aren't normal so I was like so you
got to have an open ear to going okay
some other people can see this
differently than what you can see
yourself and so you had to be open to
producers but I think where the dynamic
got a little strange was that their idea
of family or or their idea of what
family is uh was was really different
than ours and so that's I think
sometimes they have more of that
stereotypical the dad's a goofball he's
just you know all he wants to do is
watch football drink a beer you know are
rolling their mom's the smartest one
kids are like on their phones like we
hate this you know and so we we we broke
that because of and we wanted to we were
like we're not all families are like
that you know there there's respect and
there's you know like my children would
would not roll their eyes at me and say
whatever dad you know we hate this and
you know so and and dad has a brain and
he can think outside of you know
whatever the those things are so
sometimes that there was the you had to
be open I think to listen and and be
like oh that's really funny but also not
just go down the path that I think a lot
of sitcoms I mean honestly so many of
them are just the same you know and so
um and so I think that's the mold that
we really broke out of because before
that reality TV was it was all about the
fight it was all about like the train
wreck What can you like the the Big
scenes are the ones where the tables are
flipped and everyone's fighting and
everyone's arguing where for us the Big
scenes where the family is around the
table and um and and there's that like
Willie mentioned we mentioned twice I
think respect you know that respect for
one another and um for the kids and
their parents and kids and their
grandkids and there was another scene
where um Phil um who was the Granddad
you know was was having our the
grandkids clean a football field a clear
a field and they just expected that the
kids would be arguing complaining upset
about it you know we didn't want to do
it but instead our kids were of course
you know their Pepa ask them to clean a
field they'll clean a field and so it
was just this like this this Dynamic
that we had to kind of work through
early Seasons to say like oh no that's
that's just not who we are and not what
we do so there was a part of it that was
playful but then a part of it that was
also us kind of saying No this is who we
are this is what our family is about and
it's going to look different than maybe
what you expected or what's out there on
television right now okay so there's a
couple a bunch of things there that you
guys Drew out so you have the Clinton
comment you know that duck dynasty was
popular because it was real or because
we thought it was real and you said well
that's real interesting on the political
side because I suppose you could say the
same thing about Clinton and about many
politicians but there's also a really
interesting grain of Truth there that
also pertains to play Hey so you know
you said and insisted that you guys had
your characters and your characters
actually reflected your actual
personalities and that one of the
decisions you made was to stay in
character and so that means that when
you were fictionalizing your life and it
wasn't real it was still real because
you weren't willing to play out roles
that actually weren't reflective of your
character and I would say that actually
characterizes appropriate pretend play
with children too because if two little
kids are playing house and they can do
that very very seriously if there's any
falseness in the game it's no longer a
good analog of reality and the kids will
get bored with it right away if the if
any of the players start to step out out
of character and break the implicit
rules of the game it's no longer fun and
it's because they're not simulating
reality properly and so while you guys
are playing and elaborating on your
characters even if that's scripted if
you're staying in character it's not
false it's actually reflective of a
deeper truth and then another thing you
pointed out that's absolutely
fascinating I think is that you know you
said for example that it's typical in a
sitcom and you see this in
advertisements and this has really been
true I think since the mid-60s that
increasingly male characters in sitcoms
especially fathers are presented as
bumbling buffoons right they're
presented as the sort of people that
children can roll their eyes at now you
know there's a very detailed
research a body of research uh laying
out predictors of divorce among couples
in Psycho theapy so maybe you come for
marital counseling if one or the other
partner or both rolls their off eyes
during the sessions which is a sign of
contempt there's a
95% possibility probability that that
couple will be divorced in the next year
like contempt is a very very bad emotion
and the the idea that kids can roll
their eyes at their stupid father that's
a really really bad idea and and it
reminded me of something today I was
writing I'm writing this book called we
who wrestle with God and I was writing
about Noah the story of Noah today you
know and there's a scene after the ark
comes to rest after the flood Noah
plants a Vineyard and I guess you know
he's had kind of a rough time so he
plants a Vineyard and he Brews up some
wine and he gets pretty rip roaring
drunk and one of his sons come in comes
into his tent and Noah is there passed
out and he's naked and instead of
covering him up and shutting the hell up
about it this son called ham uh goes and
tells his brother that you know Dad's
made a fool of himself and sort of gets
them to come in hypothetically to poke
fun at him and instead the other
brothers come in with their backs turned
and cover them up and then so The Story
Goes the descendants of ham become the
slaves the servants and the slaves of
the sons who covered up their father and
the idea there no this is kind of far a
field from what you pointed out but the
idea there is that if you don't have a
certain degree of respect or even
reverence for your father despite his
shortcomings which we all have then
you're doomed to a useless life and
people who are respectful will dominate
over you because they'll be you know
their lives will go right because
they're in accordance with tradition so
the fact that not only you stayed in
character in your play no that reflects
the kind of deeper reality that
obviously people were viewing in your
show but it also reflects the fact that
you presented to people something like
an appropriate relationship say between
Fathers and Sons at a time when that's
become increasingly rare and then the
last thing I was thinking
about is um recently we've seen a
strange phenomenon and I think you guys
were probably on the Forefront of this
is that as our culture has become more
and more obsessed with kind of an
impulsive Hedonism and an a religious
viewpoint
the shows that have a core element of
faith in them have become absurdly
popular and you saw this in the last
couple of years in particular with the
success for example of the chosen which
was phenomenally successful right that
long series about Christ's passion and
his life and then more recently with
this film The Sound of freedom and the
both of those are very fundamentally
faith-based without you know hitting you
over the head with it because
the story in both cases still takes
precedence by far over any expressions
of it of evangelizing Faith but I think
it also speaks to the fact and I think
you guys were early to the market with
this so to speak is that as the family
disintegrates as there's more and more
fatherless kids as the divorce rate
skyrockets and the birth rate plummets
all of those things are very negative
people have a longing not only for
family but for more traditional family
say gathered around the table and for a
traditional family that's based in
something like faith and
so well let's talk about let's talk
about first about this idea of filial or
paternal respect you know you you speak
of your father with a certain degree of
respect well an immense degree of
respect you certainly don't regard him
as a buffoon he started the business as
far as I know that propelled you guys
into the real TV domain so so what do
you think about your father and the way
he was portrayed in the show and why do
you think that portrayal was successful
and accurate actually I would have to
say my father wasn't really portrayed he
just was doing exactly what he was going
to do um so in fact he didn't understand
I I still I don't he didn't understand
the show I don't know that he still
understands what we were trying to do
with the show and so he he still was
like this is the silliest thing I've
ever seen um so one of my favorite
scenes uh of him was uh my son John Luke
was was dating a girl and he he was
going to get dating advice from his papa
phield and so they're in a boat they're
on the water and my dad uh sits him down
he said I want to explain some things to
y'all uh garia syphilis and he just
starts listing sexually transmitted
diseases except this
gar wow I'm like I don't think so and
I'm watching cuz I wasn't in that scene
so as I'm watching on TV I'm just belly
laughing this is the funniest thing I've
ever heard because it's the same exact
speech that I heard when I was his age
like 15 Phil just went straight to the
sexual sexually transmitted diseases uh
he left out one and he was so upset so
so I went up to him and I said Dad I
said that was I saw the scene with you
and John Luke and I said it was so funny
and dad's not smiling he went will I'm
not joking I said I know you weren't
joking that's what made it so funny and
he said I forgot about clidia I forgot
yeah he was still like bothered that he
forgot one that he left
out so I don't know that the show
portray I mean I think Phil was exactly
what he wanted he wanted more uh he told
me he said I think we should have more
preaching on the show and I said dad
that that's there's another Robertson
family that has a show it's the 700 Club
they preach we're just let us do this
and and if they want more they can come
later and so but the Dynamics of the
show as far as when we talked about the
show Phil just did what he did and we
just worked around it which I thought
was so funny because for a lot of dads
especially you know older guys where you
know especially his age where they just
do what they want to do they say what
they want want to say and you just deal
with it you know so why in the world was
he willing to go along with this at all
cuz it's so absurd it's so Preposterous
right I mean it's like your family you
wouldn't have confused you guys with the
Kardashians and I'm not trying to you
know throw out gratuitous insults to the
Kardashians but you wouldn't have
confused your family with the
Kardashians and you wouldn't presume
that your father was the sort of person
who would decide that a reality TV show
for his family was really a good thing
or something he wanted to participate in
so why did he why did he go along with
it and what made him successful at it
well I think he I mean I think there
were two things I mean one part was cuz
Dad said I don't think people are going
to watch his show you know why would
they watch us and and I said well Dad it
there's a bigger platform I think we
could because he's passionate as as as
we are about sharing the gospel I said
there's a bigger platform and I think
you'll be able to share the gospel with
with more people with this platform as
opposed to around here you know like in
our little uh and so and and Phil did he
was like Hey if you think it'll help if
you think if we can get the gospel out
more then I'm willing to do it uh that
wasn't it I mean also I was like Dad I
think they'll pay us money like I think
we can make good money and we could and
so that was part of it I mean my dad was
in his mid 60s so he's like at
retirement age and we didn't have a lot
of money and he was like like well this
could be this could be you know
something to do and so in fact I will
say though interestingly Phil so Phil
was the one who started actually filming
himself so back in like the 80s we had a
hunting business and he thought I wonder
if people would want to watch our hunts
and literally bought a video camera the
sound guy from our church filmed them
hunting in the Duck Blind we didn't buy
one we borrowed one at first one the
first ones we borrowed and then made
yeah made a DVD about or a VHS tape
actually of the hunt and it was duck
Hunts uh which it was kind of like uh
was it was pretty much uh Clint Ewood or
Josie Welles duck if he duck hunted and
it was Dad was like really into like
classic rock cuz
he he was very reverent like back then
he would like we had a spitting scene
like everybody would have like giant
shoes at the back and like it'd be slow
motion spitting it was and but there was
like a Grassroots people that like we
love this it was kind of in yourr face
for like the proper uh and I think my
dad was always kind of anti- wealthy
proper and so he was kind of always
fighting the system and so to him it was
like this is how we do it it was in your
face it was like raw gritty hunting and
uh kind of working man's type of hunting
this is not your you know buy all your
property and you know cu cuz they grew
up super poor and so yeah so Phil did do
that you know he had these he had the
videos that that went into TV on on
Outdoor Channel and then so when this
came it was you know I I think he was
more open but I think he thought man
this is going to get a lot bigger and
the production will be bigger which we
knew it would um so that's kind of how
he I guess we talked him into it and he
agreed to
it the Bible is the root of all wisdom
inspiration and spiritual nourishment
the hall app empowers you to explore the
Bible's profound teachings and to
effortlessly incorporate them into your
daily life a great place to start while
you deepen your understanding of the
Bible is to check out father Mike
schmitz's Bible in a year available on
the Hallow app for brief daily readings
and Reflections here you can dive into
an extensive library of Bible reading
plans accompanied by insightful
Reflections and Audi guided meditations
whether you're a seasoned Bible reader
or just starting your journey hallow
provides a platform for you to engage
with scripture like never before for
studying the Bible's literary Brilliance
has influenced countless writers poets
and artists throughout history by
studying the Bible yourself you'll gain
a deeper appreciation for the power of
Storytelling symbolism and metaphor
enriching your understanding of
literature across different genres the
Hallow app also helps you connect with a
community of like-minded individuals
sharing experiences insights and
encouragement along the path to
spiritual growth download the app for
free at hall.com Jordan you can set
reminders and track your progress along
the way enrich your education and
nurture your mind and soul today
download the Hallow app at hall.com
Jordan that's hall.com
Jordan hall.com Jordan for an exclusive
3-month free trial of all 10,000 plus
prayers and
meditations okay so that's cool in in
three ways you know for listening to
this from a Canadian perspective I
always feel a bit like an anthropologist
when I'm when I'm in the United United
States because your culture is similar
to ours but it has very interesting
differences and there's something
extremely American about the story you
just laid out because first of all
there's that you you talked about Clint
Eastwood there's sort of that Backwoods
Rebel thing going on that's really a
powerful part of American culture you
know the the the alienated Cowboy who's
really a solid guy at heart who's an
anti-establishment figure but also a
traditionalist I mean that's an
unbelievably deep American Trope and an
extremely successful one and then you
know you said your dad too was
interested in this uh in in doing the
Family series partly because he had some
interest in evangelizing right now you
said that you guys didn't want to take
that to any extreme and I think
obviously that was an extremely good
decision because if your show would have
ever got preachy people would have just
shut it off right that Faith had to be
something implicit and displayed but not
something that you were beating people
over the head with to convince them
because who the hell wants to watch
propaganda which is something that the
entertainment industry is going to have
to figure out again and then you have
this interesting additional aspect
that's also deeply American you know you
said while your dad also thought this
was probably at least in potential a
good way to grow the business and to
make money and you know you you think
about how American it is for those three
things to meet there's the Clint
Eastwood you know alienated lone
Backwoods cowboy with with his middle
finger up to the system there's the
there's a bit of protestant evangelizing
mixed in there and then the last last of
it is you know this this eye to the
market and to entrepreneurial activity
and all three of those things those
those American characterological
elements seem to come together in your
show you know I bet your father really
secretly enjoyed all this he I don't
imagine he would let on but my guess is
that there was part of him too that was
thinking this is actually pretty cool
although I'll never tell my damn sons
that
100% spot on he's actually still doing
it he's got a podcast that he does four
days a week and he loves it and also
yeah it was fun to see actually Phil and
Kay and Uncle sa how they all like
became younger as we were doing it cuz
they had fun with it and the family was
all together you know it was such a
blessing that our kids got to be with
their grandparents and their aunts and
uncles and all that on just a daily
basis like we were
you know when you film you're there a
long time it's a it's a long time where
things are happening you're filming
there's a lot of sitting around where
they're setting up lights and cameras
and so we just got to be together as a
family even more we we've always been
together as a family a lot because we
just kind of do life like that and live
you know live in close proximity and and
have meals together but when you're
filming we were really together and and
it was fun it was a blessing to get to
do that it was a blessing I think for
our kids to get to have that time with
their grand you know their grandparents
that was even a more intimate time
together yeah there was like these odd
combinations of family members whatever
scene you were in and um it but you're
having to like I'm depending on my
eight-year-old nephew you know during
this scene I'm like come on buddy we got
this you know and so or maybe depending
on my uncle or someone else and so it
was kind of you would be stuck here for
hours you know but it was really fun I
think that's what we you know kind of
miss and um but you're right dad would
dad would gripe about it and this is you
know he would gripe but then the minute
our show ended he was doing a podcast
the next week like and he was out there
filming in the woods and and he does
like four hours a week which is
mindblowing to me to be doing that much
and so it is funny you know he would he
would complain about it on one hand but
then uh uh but he you know he certainly
thinks no Willie's mom on the other hand
this was her chance to be a star and she
had a blast she loved it she she would
carry in her purse like head shot of
herself different head shot so she would
lay them out like at the grocery store
for someone to pick from and I and and
she would say uh Willie uh everybody
recognized me and I said Mom your shirt
said Miss K like every like you're
wearing like a shirt like with your face
on and of course they they recognize you
and so it was just fun watching them
kind of have this
complete different lease on life you
know with when like I said said where
they thought I think you know I mean
when we took over the company I remember
my dad told me he said I think everybody
has a duck call like it's over and this
is 10 years before the duck n happens I
was like well there may be something
left of this company and but he had kind
of thought that was it you know we did
good and from where they came from to
where uh they ended up I thought they
felt successful uh but they had no idea
the the wild ride that was coming uh
within the next couple of
decades so Cory you married into this
family and we discussed earlier the uh
observation that well it was a a two
pronged observation that on the one hand
the Duck Dynasty family was far from
normal but on the other hand they
actually represented a return to a kind
of traditional norm and ideal so there's
a paradoxical mix there of
idiosyncrasy and and peculiarity in the
best sense but also grounded in
something that's really recognizable and
and traditional and one of the things
that struck me you know my family has
ridden a wave of notoriety and
popularity I suppose that's lasted now
probably it's almost 10 years since it
really started and that places all sorts
of opportunities in front of you but
also all sorts of stresses when now
you've you've obviously entered the
family let's say as an outsider and you
could see their
idiosyncrasies but you've also been able
to see whatever it is that's enabled
them to pull together and to stay
together and one of the things that's
quite remarkable to me and I've really
noticed this in talking to you guys the
last couple of times we've talked is
that despite the rapid transformation of
your lives in all sorts of unexpected
truly unexpected directions the family
seems to have done a good job of staying
together and maybe even getting more
closely knit I mean that's what you
essentially alluded to when you talked
about the fact that you got to spend so
much time on set let's say so Corey how
do you think it is what's your
observation of why the Duck Dynasty
family actually managed to do this
without well without all turning into
like raving narcissistic alcoholics and
having any everything go to hell in a
hand basket which is you know pretty
likely outcome All Things
Considered yeah I think there was a real
rootedness and a grounded Ness in our
place and and who we are and um and our
faith of course is the thing is the
ultimate thing that plays plays into
that but I think that just we did stay
true to who we are and we stayed in our
hometown like we're still here like we
didn't move away to LA and Hollywood and
that's one thing that I remember
whenever we were in the middle of it and
it was it was crazy you know people like
our warehouse people just started
showing up by the thousands you would
leave our leave our place of work every
day and there'd be just hundreds of
people out there and you know there it
was crazy but I think during that time
period I remember looking at other
celebrities who kind of like moved away
and were doing it on their own and being
so grateful that we were doing it as a
family because we had one another to
kind of like be there in it together and
keep each other grounded in that and um
and also there is a I think whenever
someone reaches this level of kind of
fame or celebrity there's a a it's a
strange kind of loneliness that can
happen because you do get a little
isolated you can't go out and do the
things that you maybe used to do because
there is so much attention or whatever
and um because we were able to do it as
a family and we still had one another
and we you know could come back to our
same church or same school or same
friends or same that type of thing so we
could go out into the world and kind of
like do these fun things and big things
but then we kind of came back to this
home that there where there was a lot of
really deep
roots so why do you think you didn't
move away I mean you know famously with
The Beverly Hillbillies as soon as they
struck oil you know they were off to
Hollywood and hilarity ensued but you
guys made a conscious decision and maybe
that that was partly to keep the show on
the track that it was why didn't you
transform your life radically move away
and and and I presume also you haven't
done that since you you you've decided
that where you're situated and situated
in a genuine life that has like a
multigenerational history that that
actually works really well for you why
weren't you tempted to to seek you know
let's say hypothetically broader
Horizons I was never tempted yeah never
tempted to move from where this is um uh
I guess mostly because there's we have
so much family connect because we're
both from here Cory's parents are here
we have like so many different
connections here and so moving away
wouldn't have been advantageous it
wouldn't have been you know and actually
um if you take us out like what makes us
who we are it it was here you know it
was being in
Louisiana um I don't know that you know
us being in yeah living in LA or New
York you know you know would really make
sense even business wiser for what we do
I mean I felt like the show was was here
and that's where we needed to be and so
but yeah that was one of of all the
things I've I've thought about I I never
had any desire to actually move to
another place and yeah as Bly mentioned
my family's here as well so in our
neighborhood is my parents my
grandmother who's in her 90s aunts and
uncles and all that and so we um you
know just feel like that's a real
blessing to not take for granted and not
to not to lose and it's been really neat
to see as our kids have kind of grown up
so as the show ended our kids were all
kind of starting college and you know
moving into this high school years
College years and they've all gone away
to college and come back here which has
been really awesome for us so now we
have grandkids here so on this street
actually where we live is five
generations and um you know I think that
that's just it's not it's not the norm
anymore and so it's not something to be
taken for granted so we we wouldn't want
to give that up for anything yeah and
there's nothing and another like I hate
traffic and I hate so many people like I
don't know how people live like this
just crazy and so if you're talking
about
food I can cook anything I want to cook
and as far as being in the outdoors I
can get there and so yeah no no other
city I just yeah every time I'm I I
enjoy visiting for a second and then I
always think I would never want to live
in a city like like this or this big so
yeah when when I grew up in my small
town Fairview Alberta there was about
3,000 people there and it was about 50
years old and it was about 400 miles
from the nearest city of any size it was
literally on the edge of the
northernmost part of the Prairie and in
in part of the country part of the North
American plane that had been settled
last I mean I had friends whose fathers
had established homesteads there when
there were still tepes of cre Indians on
the land and that was in 1937 so it was
really the last edge of the frontier you
know and it's funny because in our town
people sort of bifurcated into two
tracks there were the kids who knew they
were going to leave this small town
Fairview and we the kids who knew that
probably knew that when they were about
10 or 11 they're going to get away from
the little town they're going to go off
to usually the university off to the
city and then out into world and most
many people didn't do that many people
stayed and it wasn't necessarily because
they were attracted say to the kind of
family life that you guys are talking
about because but because and you know
I'm I'm not I'm not trying to
disseminate character logical
assassinations here um they were often
people who hadn't really formulated a
vision of where they wanted to go in
life and didn't leave mostly because
leaving would have required planning you
know but but it wasn't the case like it
it seemed to be in our community that if
you were headed for something
approximating broader Horizons at
success you were definitely going to
leave and that was really encouraged you
know my wife for example her mom and Dad
loved her and they had a good family and
still do but her graduation present was
luggage and the message and that was
very common where I grew up and the
message was you know get the hell out of
here and get out into the world
now you guys are pretty adventurous and
you're pretty entrepreneurial but
interestingly enough you decided to to
stay within the confines of your family
and to build that and I wonder how I
wonder why those differences were the
case and I I wonder
also I guess you got enough what what
did you get you got enough um you got
enough satisfaction of your adventurous
impulses within the family structure
that you guys had created was that
partly a consequence of being able to
participate let's say in your father's
business like what was it about growing
up there that gave you enough
Adventure uh well I mean I can find
Adventure in a lot of things so it's
like um cuz we I mean just growing up on
the river like we we didn't really have
anything but there was so much Adventure
on the river and climbing around it and
uh paddling uh not just boats but
paddling chunks of Styrofoam or paddling
a log down the creek where it had danger
was like in fact when I go back now I'm
like I could have really died at any
point like as I'm looking like this
could have been bad and this could have
been bad but so there was a lot of
Adventure and I think as we got into um
before the show we didn't have a lot of
money I think we were we were kind of
like wow
what what's going to end up happening
from this and then once we did the show
we were able to travel a lot and so we
do travel a lot so we're going all over
Mo and honestly mostly for work I mean
we go to do uh all over the world we we
do stuff and so I guess coming back home
I'm like okay now we're we're back home
this is what matters so you know I'll
say so Willie growing up I knew we met
in fourth grade at summer camp and um
one of the things that always struck me
about Willie was he was so
entrepreneurial even as a kid like he
was always creating these businesses and
his family lived in the house that they
live in on the show but it was even
smaller at that time it was two bedrooms
and so all our teenage years Willie
fixed up the laundry room or the cook
Shack that was his room he was always
like making himself something special
like a little special room or a special
this so like I saw this kind of spirit
Spirit of like Adventure and
Entrepreneurship even even as a kid or
as a teenager as we kind of went through
life together we we started dating we
got married we were 18 and 19 and for my
family we actually traveled a lot and I
think travel is such a gift and we
wanted to give that to our kids and you
know there were times whenever we didn't
have enough money to travel with our
kids but we wanted to find ways to do
that we an we bought an exchange student
actually who became our daughter Rebecca
and um because we wanted to expose our
kids to other cultures and other things
so even though we had that that deep
sense of like home we do just really
value um yeah travel and openness and
seeing the world and I think that that
just brings in a whole another depth to
to children and to people because you
understand kind of your place in it and
it's so much bigger than you and
sometimes we can if we stay in our
hometowns like can stay in these small
to towns you can get this sense that
it's like oh it's all about whatever is
happening right here and um we just
always wanted to really kind of expose
our kids and our family to oh this world
is a lot bigger than what's going on
right here in this little little piece
MH well you know the other one of the
things that travel does and this has
been noted by literary figures pretty
much forever is that you don't really
know what you have until you leave it
right because you take it for granted
and you can't even see that you have a
culture until you go to a different
culture because you just take everything
that you think is normal for granted and
you think it's normal and then when you
go somewhere else where normal is
different you realize that no you
actually came from a particular place in
a particular time and and you have your
peculiarities because of it and that can
make you well it should if you're wise
that should make you more first of all
more conscious of what you have but also
more grateful for it we can return to
that theme of gratitude and so it sounds
like you guys got the balance
between familial stability and
predictability and adventure in the
world optimized right so you you're not
you're not bounded by what you've
learned let's say in Louisiana because
you've traveled all over the place and
you've been able to see it from the
outside and so you can get all that
varied experience and still remain
grounded in your community so so that's
very that's another really optimized
form of play so let let me ask you a
little bit about the business side of
things because I'm very curious about
that so your father made these DVDs
that's the Buckman series if I
understand it correctly and so he was
starting to play with video pretty early
right so that was pretty that was smart
because video in the hands of you know
non Hollywood type or non- network types
it was the dissemination of early video
technology that allowed that then it
eventually morphed into well the kind of
thing we're doing today with YouTube
people have these broadcast tools at
hand your dad was in that very early you
know and I started to record my lectures
the first ones I recorded were in
1992 you know there was no way of
disseminating them but I eventually did
put them on YouTube but I started
putting my lectures online in
you know and that was part of laying the
groundwork for what eventually grew into
the widespread distribution of my
lectures and my podcasts now you know I
mean large things tend to start small
and you know for the first five first
three
years the average viewings for my
lectures were probably under 50,000
which is still a lot of people right
when you're accustomed to lecturing to
like 2 or 300 50,000 is a number
definitely worth paying attention to but
your dad caughted on to the use of video
early and how okay how did that
contribute to the success of his
business and how did that morph into the
Duck Dynasty
opportunities yeah I so dad started in
the 80s so we had this bared equipment
he he had a guy the church who was a
sound guy and he said hey let's go shoot
a video I I believe it was over three or
four days
uh they kind of really played into uh my
father had played college football with
Terry Bradshaw he he had the beard and
and uh it was funny watching the video
um he's kind of looking down he's kind
of um humble he's not like inyour face
yet and uh so they make the video um I
think they sold what did it say 200 or
150 copies so way less than your 50,000
people this was in fact it was pretty
much like well that didn't work you know
uh however he was like no I think we got
something so every couple of years they
were going to do another one and then
they were going to put more footage in
more and so that was going okay the big
break we had was was when Walmart uh
started carrying our duck calls and then
Walmart put the uh vhs's in Walmart
sporting goods so now we're in about
2500 stores all over the country so
we're in Northern California we're on
the Eastern Shore we're up in the
Midwest and that was the game changer so
because they could watch something and
get fired up and say man look at this
guy and I think we appealed at that
point again with the spitting and with
the Southern Accents and um uh just
other unusual things that that my father
would do uh with the music and all that
we just really got this underground you
know it was like a um a swell of people
going hey man we we love that we love
watching this then they would watch them
they would get ready for the duck season
they would put them in and say now we
got to get fired up and they'd watch
them over and over and over they
memorize some of the lines um uh that he
would do and so all that we felt like
was such preparation to build up what
which would would ultimately be Duck
Dynasty on A&E but there were so many
little things before that that we got
just enough to know uh just enough to
know how to be around camera just enough
to know all that so it wasn't like just
hero to hero or throw us in a show going
good luck you know there's a camera and
where's the mic Go I mean we had had
just enough to know especially how to
entertain people and again back to how
to tell a story which was learned at the
dinner table because we learned how to
tell good stories because we didn't have
hardly any TV there was no computer so
if you told a story you had to tell it
and bring it and if it wasn't good
believe me our family would let you know
like that's terrible just like terrible
food if you cooked it and so like
everybody's brutally honest with you and
so you learn how to do that good I feel
like all that played into you know that
and that's how the videos did that yeah
and back to the business so the end of
the V the videos would be their phone
number which was their house you know
everything was run out of their home and
so their home phone number was the
business and so at the end of the video
there'd be a phone number and if you
want more products if you want more
products and people would call and it be
back on on the back of the VHS tape or
the DVD and so yeah people just started
calling all of the sudden it's like
you're answering phone calls from all
over the country rather than kind of
this little radius where you know before
Phil would go out in his truck to this
little radius and sell to all the
sporting goods stores well then once it
got in Walmart of course all of the
sudden you get phone calls from from all
over and we're the ones answering the
phone like as a teenager I'm like Duck
Commander and then I'm writing down
orders like on paper plates and napkins
and like putting them up to to ship out
the next day and so uh that's when we
just started seeing grown but that
Walmart thing was a big that was a big
break that when they put us in uh that
chain of stores it just changed
everything which not coincidentally
Walmart was whenever during Duck Dynasty
we were in I think 22 different
departments in Walmart and they said
that they never had this no other brand
including like Coca-Cola Disney any
other brand had had ever done this so we
had the number one seller in men's
women's kids and juniors in the
department and they said they had never
seen it before that the same brand
crossed all the categories at the same
time so that was pretty cool
yeah are you looking for an all-in-one
e-commerce platform that can help you
easily set up and grow your business
online look no further than Shopify with
Shopify you can quickly and easily build
your own online store manage your
inventory and accept payments from
customers plus Shopify offers a range of
customizable themes and templates to
choose choose from so you can create a
professionall looking store without any
design experience it even helps
integrate with other popular tools to
help you sell across social media
marketplaces like Tik Tok Facebook and
Instagram with shopify's 247 support and
an extensive Business course Library
that's available to support you every
step of the way Shopify is the Commerce
platform revolutionizing millions of
businesses worldwide if you're ready to
get serious about selling try Shopify
today sign up for a $1 per month try
period at shopify.com
jbp go to shopify.com jbp to take your
business to the next level today that's
shopify.com
jbp so that's okay so there's some Lots
about that that's really cool so I
mentioned earlier that I'm writing this
book um we who wrestle with God and part
of it an analysis of different biblical
stories and I just did a seminar down in
Miami that we released a couple of week
weeks ago on uh Exodus and there's a
cool part of Exodus that's very much
relevant I think to what happened with
your father and it's the famous story of
the burning bush so what happens in the
story of the burning bush like this is
an unbelievably useful story is that so
at this time in the story Moses is
really a nobody he's left Egypt he was
kind of a nobleman in Egypt but he
killed an an Egyptian and he had to like
get the hell out of there and he went
went to a different country to midia
midia I think it's midia the midianites
live there anyways and he uh he draws
some water from a well for some women
and and they're pretty happy about you
think he chases some rude like Punk
Shepherds away and anyways the girl
falls in love with him and he ends up
being a Shepherd for his father-in-law
whose name is Jethro and so he's just
minding his own damn business
fundamentally being a Shepherd he's out
there in the middle of nowhere unknown
and uh he's wandered around one day and
something catches his attention and he
turns off his path and the story makes
this quite clear it's not it's not like
it screams in front of him it's kind of
off the beaten path a little bit
something glimmers and catches his
attention and he decides to pay
attention and go look and as he gets
closer to it he realizes it's this bush
on fire and uh as he gets closer to it
um he hears God's voice speaking and
then he has to take off his shoes
because he enters sacred territory and
then the secr of being itself reveals
itself to him that's God revealing his
name and that's when Moses becomes
leader and you might say well what the
hell does that story have to do with
anything and it's really it's very very
clear and it's very clear
psychologically you know because as
we're wandering along our paths in life
our normal paths so in Moses case being
a Shepherd in your dad's case you know
being a hunter and Manufacturing duck
call
um nothing out of the ordinary in some
ways about that now and then something
will glimmer and gleam for us that'll
capture our attention you know and we
can choose to pay attention to that or
not now Moses pays attention to it but
so did your dad right so you said he
done some sound work for example for the
local church and so he developed a
little bit of expertise with the new
technology and then he had this idea
which is you know it's it's not exactly
a normal idea it's pretty experimental
and entrepreneurial idea that he could
take this um new technology that he was
interested in and do something unique
with it and there was a little bit of
Courage that went along with that too
and a willingness to you know to go off
the beaten path and then you said too
that I that I also think so interesting
is and you know and everybody who's
watching and listening should listen to
this because what I see happening to
people in their life all the time is
that an opportunity will gleam for them
and they notice they're interested in it
but then they don't have the discipline
or maybe the courage to pursue it
they're afraid they'd fail they're
afraid it would be foolish they're
afraid they would look bad and so they
put it aside and so it looks like
they've missed nothing but maybe they
missed you know the burning bush and God
speaking to them maybe they missed the
whole adventure of your of their life
now one of the things that's quite
interesting about you guys and maybe
this also has something to do with your
practice of gratitude is that well first
of all you're father pursued this
strange interest that he had and then
did something somewhat Preposterous
which was to make these films that were
sort of tongue and cheek about his duck
hunting you know and to play himself as
a character but then also when the
entrepreneurial opportunities came along
you guys also jumped on them and said
yes and that really you know that really
flowered outward grew outward like a
bush let's say when when it came to
Walmart right and one of the things you
also see about artists and entrepreneurs
who want to fail is that they get high
and mighty inappropriately about
commercial opportunities you know you
have people you hear people say this all
the time he sold out or I would never
sell out and whenever I hear someone who
isn't very successful say they wouldn't
sell out I always think well yes you
would first of all and the reason you
haven't is either because you're too
dumb to sell out or because no one's
come to you with even anything vaguely
approximating an offer you know and the
fact that you haven't sold out when no
one has offered you a penny for your
soul is no indication of your morality
it just means that no one cares what
you're doing now and I'm being tongue
and cheek about that to some degree but
I do see people fail very often because
they take the moral High ground or at
least they think they do by rejecting
commercial opportunities that might come
their way and your dad was obviously
canny enough to pursue his creative
interests and that's very interesting
say on the and his experimental interest
to make these videos but also to say yes
when a business opportunity came his way
you know and you said well that just
grew well it grew incrementally to begin
with but then when you hit Walmart it
was like you know well that was the
beginning of the like that cataclysmic
expansion and people miss those
opportunities for expansion when they
say no to things that they should say
yes to right and they get high and
mighty about it and it's stupid you
should be happy if an opportunity comes
your way absolutely yeah we both come so
I come from family business as well and
our family I I think one of the gifts
that they pass down then that we kind of
like utilize in growing the business was
that Spirit of like Risk and
Entrepreneurship and it's okay and I
think that so our family had a lot of
businesses and some failed and some were
a few were success UC F really
successful but a lot of them Walmart
bought one of your business actually
yeah Sam Walton bought one of our family
businesses that's a I forgot yeah that's
true so so interestingly yeah so I grew
up in kind of this home where risk
taking was was a reward and was a
positive because you know you tried
something and it was okay if you failed
and that type of thing and and I think
back to Faith as being kind of this
underg guarding of that is like if you
know that you're going to be okay if it
fails and I think that was that was told
to us you know over and over again
growing up my dad would say hey if we
lose it all tomorrow it's all right we
still got what what's most important so
it's this grounding of like okay what's
most important is our family and our
faith and if we lose all of this other
stuff all right we'll be all right we'll
get back up and do something else
tomorrow and so whenever we came
together I think that was a a benefit
because we kind of brought those two
worlds together well I'd say the
difference to like obviously not knowing
your family for so long but even back
then they were there was a bunch of
different tries at it so it was like
We'll try this and even us today we're
like hey we'll try that hey we'll try
this I think growing up where we were
like with with Duck Commander and the
business that was it it we're saying
we're all in like we're all in like it
wasn't like he we'll try this on the
side we try all the chips were shoved in
the middle going we're going to put it
all right here and uh was was n a lot of
chips though because it was like because
most of it was being fueled by by the
personality it wasn't like we had tons
of money ever invested it was like you
know uh but but we are this is what
we're going for and we could always you
know Dad was always good like saying
yeah if it doesn't if this doesn't work
hey we we keep fishing and we keep
eating you know the standards were low
it's like hey we're we're totally happy
and what we've got you know that's very
cool like you you outlined something
very interesting there because one of
the things that people might be thinking
about is well what what constitutes
failure and what constitutes success and
how do you how do you stop failure from
taking you out and one of the things you
both pointed out is that you're actually
pretty careful about defining failure
you say well look if this limited
Enterprise fails we still have our
family we still have the love and
respect we have for each other and we
have a backup plan and so what that
means is that you set yourself up
strategically so that failure it wasn't
failure it was just a death of an
experimental Enterprise and then I might
also ask you you know because you had
your family you had things in place that
weren't going to shift even if some
things shifted right so you have some
security in that regard that enables you
to take risks but then we also might
think about failure too like I don't
know what it's like for you guys guys
but some here's one of the things I've
noticed in my life is that I don't think
I've ever actually failed when I was all
in you know and what I mean by that is
that my plans business plans included
might not have turned out the way I had
expected them to but if I was all in and
I made the right sacrifices so to speak
I learned something unbelievably useful
that I could then use in something that
turned out to be successful you know
I've even noticed this when I'm writing
so you know when I'm writing a book I
collect the pieces of writing that I've
edited out I I just I put a little i
title a uh what a file culls and I throw
everything that I don't think fits into
those into that cull it's sort of like a
waist bin but it's not exactly a waste
bin because I can often go back to those
ideas and figure out how to use them
somewhere else else and so one of the
things I've noticed in my life and I
think it's interesting that you
commented Willie about uh being Allin is
that if you're really focused on the
task at
hand there isn't any wasted
effort like it it isn't necessarily the
case that you're progressing to the goal
you have in mind but if you're all in
and you're not mocking about then you
learn something that you're going to be
able
to that's going to be of benefit to you
and other people at some point in the
future and so and and Corey you talked
about your father and his attitude
towards s towards failure I mean it it
sounds that what it what it's more like
it's not so much an attitude towards
failure it's a
conceptualization of moving forward as
an experimental Enterprise right you're
going to generate ideas and some of them
are really going to go somewhere but
most won't and you know that's typical
of entrepreneur like most people who
make a fortune have failed enough to be
in financial distress multiple times
before they finally formulate something
that works but that doesn't mean that
those that they were failing it means
that they were experimenting in good
faith and they didn't lose faith and
they had
enough supports put in around them so
that they could tolerate you know the
what would you care the ups and downs of
trying to make something eventually
successful now you also said that was
grounded in your faith so you have your
family you have your fishing right you
have something underneath you but why do
you think that the faith under that how
do you conceptualize that faith and why
do you think that was additionally
necessary I think you like you mentioned
it's that difference in definition of
success you know and what what we deem
is success and so it gives you that
freedom like success is faithfulness
success is is is a a healthy marriage
success is a family kids that love you
and that want to live beside you success
is are all of these things and so when
you when you understand what your
definition of success is and it's those
things then you have that
freedom um to experiment and try new
things and it's okay if if this doesn't
work or this doesn't work as long as
this is working and I think that goes
back to faithfulness and for us that's
rooted in our faith in God God because
that's what changes everything for us
you know whenever you have that faith in
God there's you come up under the
authority of God then you try to live by
the the the life that he puts out for
you the adventure and the and the full
life that he gives you and then
everything that we do reflects that and
so you mentioned in our
show it wasn't preaching and it wasn't
meant to be preaching it was just our
faith sh sh shown through because it's
who we are it's how we relate to one
another in marriage it's how we relate
to our kids it's how it's How we treat
one another at work it it just informs
everything that we do um so there's this
um this faith that surrounds it all but
you don't have to say it explicitly
because it's just internal and it's who
we are and it's um how we live it's what
makes us laugh you know I mean it's what
brings us joy you know because it's like
ah so when I think about because you
said it's rooted in our faith that to me
it's the ultimate and nothing is wasted
is rooted in the faith because you would
say well what about when you really
screwed up or what about when this
happened and this was terrible with that
that's what triggers back that Faith
again going oh no it's not a waste you
know to where if you were looking at
Jesus Christ going ah what a waste they
killed him you know he's like ah not a
waste this was for you so it's
everything keeps going back and that's
it always is like nothing's wasted can I
take can I take something where I really
messed up you're like ah this is back
can I take that and use that and yes yes
that can be used yes that can be used to
help not just you and if you think about
life unselfishly it may help someone
else you know it may be ah this is
really hard for me but wow it really
helped you you know it really helped
someone else and I think that's why we
we say it's rooted there because nothing
becomes Wast that everything becomes
something that can be used uh you know
for we think for the the glory of God
you know ultimately because we have to
put ourselves down as well and not it's
not the life's not all about us you know
for sure okay so Cory you outlined a
very interesting I would call it a
hierarchy of values and I think that it
is reflected in your show and in your
general attitude and I do think that
this is part of what made what you guys
did so attractive so this is what you
basically said to me you know you said
ENT first of all your head is screwed on
straight with regard to what constitutes
success now you know you could say well
success is cocaine and hookers and you
know the extension of a radically
hedonistic life you can do whatever the
hell you want whenever you want and the
clear problem with that is you tend to
die right you end up face down in a
ditch and you take a lot of people with
you so it's kind of a stupid definition
of success now you had a very prosaic
defin of success right it's very normal
but also ideal at the same time you said
and I think you said in this order you
said a good marriage a good family and
good friends and so you could see that
that moves from you to your primary
relationship and then to your family the
next set of primary relationships and
then to the community you said if things
were are working well there and this is
somewhat independent of economic status
then you're
successful and so so that's you know
it's it's good to have your head screwed
on straight about what's successful
because that also means that when you
have that you can be grateful right you
think well and you have a grounds for
gratitude and then you implied too that
all of that was nested inside a
religious Faith right so that's this
turning toward God and so it's God
underneath the marriage underneath you
underneath the marriage underneath your
family underneath your friends and so
then and and Willie you said as well
that your faith and this was your
religious Faith enabled you to laugh
okay so a couple of things on that first
thing is one of the benefits to
Christian faith is that you have a good
standard of comparison and one standard
of comparison with regards to failure is
that if you aren't literally being
nailed to a cross while you're being
mocked by a mob and tortured things are
actually pretty good and that's really
useful to know because
it's easy to think that you're at the
bottom and to despair when you're
nowhere near the bottom and if you know
you're nowhere near the bottom even when
things have G sideways you can still be
grateful and that's extremely helpful so
that's helpful but then you also said
and this is more complex you know you
said that your faith your religious
Faith made itself manifest in all the
things you did in the show and I would
say I can
understand the
the idea of The Good Marriage I can
understand the idea of the close family
and your friendship network but how do
you specifically think that your
religious Faith helped keep you in
character like helped keep you honest
while you were doing the show how it
informed your marriage and your
relationship with family and friends so
that you guys could tolerate the ups and
downs of your wild ride toward success
without fractionating like what specific
role do you think that religious Faith
per se rather than marriage family and
friends played in keeping you grounded
and also in what would you accounting
for the popularity the enduring
popularity of your
show well there's there's a scripture
that talks about the fruit of the spirit
and it says the fruit of the spirit is
love joy peace patience kindness
gentleness goodness and self-control and
so I think that you know whenever we are
embodied by the spirit of Christ we live
those things and those things come out
of us and so the um there's also a
scripture of talking about the aroma of
Christ and just that and that we're
Lights of the world and we're salt of
the earth all these things that you know
scripture says about us as we are
embodied by the spirit um is how we try
to live and so I think those things just
kind of come out of whatever aspect
you're doing and whatever thing you're
living not that we're perfect in it by
any means of course we're not perfect in
it but um we do try to live and we try
we we hope that those fruits there's an
outpouring of those fruits in our life
well and also he says they'll know you
by your love for one another not exactly
what you know or how much you know but
that's how uh they will see you the way
I see reflected like especially on the
show is is you know
the the when it comes down to just the
show and how we're on it I think it you
know our faith kept us from one taking
ourselves
way too seriously or thinking we're so
important or I mean we could act we had
the goods we could look around going hey
we've got one of the top TV shows um on
television right now which could have
made us unbearable I mean there were
times with production there were so many
things going on where I could just lost
my mind so one of the aspects where the
faith came out was actually just to
actually just to be on set and do the
show because there was just you know
there was different Wars and different
things going on you know uh behind the
scenes and so you know you had to keep
that together to actually do that and I
think just to remain playful and not
become so serious you know when you were
when you were talking about if it's not
if you're not being crucified you're not
you know having that I think you if not
you get I think that's why people get so
caught up and they they can't really
enjoy success because they're they're
too worried about you know either losing
it or what's going to come next and so I
I just see that as as Faith doing that
and that that's where it's just
manifesting itself and just going hey I
have faith you know I mean this is you
know plus life is short I mean it's
really short and so if you believe that
life will continue and that you'll go on
then it it should help you I guess to
have a better disposition here on this
Earth knowing that you're just here like
that you're gone so um so that's I think
that that comes out in faith as well you
you point out two things there that are
interesting so earlier you know you guys
talked about the necessity of being
Allin you know that if you make made a
decision you were going to put
everything behind it and you can imagine
that that could devolve into a kind of
grim seriousness of purpose and a kind
of panic because you've bet everything
well first of all you know you did say
in some ways it isn't that you hedged
your bets you protected yourself because
you had your marriage and your family
and your friends and you weren't going
to risk that in your all in but also so
your faith it seems to me that your
faith enabled you to believe that what
you were doing was important and
worthwhile and that it could have a
positive effect for you and for other
people but also simultaneously I suppose
by subordinating you to something that
was higher on a regular basis it also
stopped you from becoming egotistical
and assuming that your success marked
you out somehow as you know pretty
naturally special right and and that's
definitely you know that's definitely uh
a Temptation for people who are
celebrities because you know I've
thought about this a lot in relationship
to Adolf
Hitler you know cuz you could imagine if
if tens of millions of
people thought you were the Savior
savior of your country who are you to
say that you're
not and the answer to that has to be
well you're someone who's subordinated
to a higher authority you know and if
you have a religious faith that would be
the authority of Christ or God and and
you're not that whatever you are no
matter how spectacular you are un
successful you're definitely not that if
you don't have that and you accumulate
Faith or fame and notoriety like what's
stopping you from confusing yourself
stupidly with the deity you know and so
it sounds like you guys balanced your
faith so that you could take yourself
seriously you know and presume that what
you were doing was worthwhile and
important but it also protected you
against the narcissism that can easily
emerge when well as you said earlier
when you can't even go down you can't
even walk down the street without being
you know constantly recognized and
celebrated and and put on a pedestal for
that
matter we're in our on our home right
now and in our dining room we have a big
um scripture on the wall and it's Romans
12 9-18 and it talks about all those
things we just talked about it was
thinking of that as you were saying it
it's starts out saying love must be
sincere hate what is evil cling to what
is good but then it goes on to talk
about not not taking your not thinking
of yourself more highly than you ought
and not trying to you know you need to
you need to sit with people from all
walks of life you need to be hospitable
and all these things so all these things
are kind of right there in that Romans
12 scripture that we have over our table
and so it's just that constant reminder
you know to to um yeah that we are up up
under something that's greater than us
so can I we're we're we're starting to
approach the end of this part of our
discussion for everybody watching and
listening I'm going to talk to Willie
and Corey Robertson about their marriage
on The Daily wire plus platform because
I'm very interested in what they've done
right because they actually seem to like
each other to some degree which is nice
to see in a married couple that have
been together for a long time um I think
maybe what we'll do before we close is
I'd like to ask you guys what you're
doing now and what your future plans are
when when we were planning this uh
interview this podcast discussion you
talk to me a little bit about your
future plans and so do you want to tell
everybody what projects you're working
on now and what you see in the future
what you're bringing to people in the
future yeah so after the show ended we
um and as we've talked about just saw
kind of that impact of entertainment and
um so we started a production company
called tread Lively Productions and our
first film is coming out September 28th
in theaters and it's called the blind
and it's interesting that we've had so
much of a conversation about Willie's
dad Phil because that is really what
this movie is about is is Phil and K
story and you know we've talked a lot
about kind of the success of it and you
know what happened after but this is the
story before and um it's it's
interesting that we we chose to go back
and tell the hard days you know the hard
parts of the story because I think when
you see a family like ours on television
sometimes you could think oh oh of
course God used them they all love each
other and they're all this but actually
scripturally and and you've mentioned
several you know people in the Bible
that God used for big things but that
were really flawed and had really you
know had these hard stories and so it's
actually you know I think people can
discount themselves and thinks oh I'm
out because I didn't do this or I didn't
do this right but instead God uses the
people who are weak but that that
surrender their Liv to him and so this
is the family story it's philling Kay
story really will he was two in the
movie and he was actually played by our
grandson which was really fun but um
this is their story and their 10 hard
years of marriage that um K got pregnant
in high school and um they went off to
college together and had 10 hard years
where Phil was an alcoholic he um you
know was adulterous he had all the
things that you would say this family
will never make it you know it's it's
over and there was a point where it was
over you know um Kay had moved to
westroad which is why they ended up here
because Phil had kicked her out of the
house and um it was just a real low
point in their family life and um a
pastor went to the bar where Phil you
want to tell yeah well my dad's sister
my Aunt Jan um begged this pastor to go
up and and preach the gospel to her
brother and and I can just imagine this
conversation like it's in a different
state you know it's like I'm you know
it's like oh time to come to church and
you know it's like no he's he's running
a bar in Southern Arkansas and that
preacher got in that car and drove to
that bar and walked into this bar and
Phil was not happy to see him it was
very adversarial and he shares his faith
with him and uh you know nothing happens
he Phil says I'll I'll keep that at mind
and then when he leaves uh it wasn't
until Dad
really uh the movie says when he came to
the end of himself you know when he was
alone he's in the woods he's living he
lived in the woods for six months
running from the state police which is
another reason we end up in Louisiana to
get away from the police um and when he
got to that point that's when he looked
back up and said hey let me talk to that
preacher again and so uh what blows me
away is that had that not happened and I
just can't quit thinking about like if
that guy doesn't go there and if it
doesn't happen and if the marriage uh
bust apart and my life looks completely
different none of this I mean it's like
the whole you know I don't go to the
church camp to meet her I'm not talking
to you it's almost like every day is a
another reflection of what would not
have happened and I would have been you
know a single parent who knows what
would have how that would have ended up
there would have been no Duck Commander
no Duck Dynasty none of that would have
happened and I can almost like 23 and me
like you can trace it back and I can
trace it back to that one little couple
who had no money no anything but a guy
went up there uh shared the gospel and
so that's why the faith is so important
because this is beyond marriage
counseling daddy kicked us out the only
thing that turned him around was that
faith in Jesus Christ and said I'm in
and then his life drastically changed
very similar like uh where saw to Paul
you know it's like you see that kind of
like bang you know almost like he saw it
like like saw did yeah this is all
detailed you said in the blind yes yes
so that's in the movie The Blind which
when Willie mentioned Saul to Paul
that's exactly you know the story of
Saul because he's blind he's whenever
Jesus kind of like blinds him on the
road to Damascus and then um it says the
scales came off and he was baptized and
at once he started proclaiming that
Jesus is the son of God and that's
really their family story it was just
this miraculous event in their family's
life where you know Jesus revealed
himself to Phil he changed his life he
turned his life to him he repented of a
sin turned around came back to their
family and then his mom Kay actually
forgave him you know which is another
miraculous thing because that's not easy
to do after living through that she says
he was like the devil like living
through those years with him she
actually forgave him and their whole
life changed yeah well that's so it's so
interesting I mean Corey you started out
this discussion with this observation
that in many of the biblical stories
let's say and this is true of great
literature in general that it's often
extremely flawed characters that make
the most interesting pathway forward and
that's actually pretty good for everyone
because everyone is flawed and so if
there was no pathway forward for flawed
people we'd all be permanently at hell
and that wouldn't be so great and so one
conclusion you can draw from that is
that you shouldn't make the presumption
to begin with that your flaws as
egregious as they might be necessarily
bar your way forward if you have good
will and you're willing to operate in
the world properly now you know we
talked a little bit about the story of
Exodus and there's a really good example
of that in the Exodus story because
there isn't a more archetypal leader
than
Moses and Moses couldn't speak properly
I mean that's continually he actually
had to Ally himself with his brother
Aaron now we don't know why I mean we
don't know if Moses had a speech
impediment or if he just wasn't you know
a very fasile public Communicator the
story doesn't make it clear but it does
make it clear that he wasn't the sort of
person you would have picked to be a
leader because he wasn't verbally
competent and so and yet he became the
the ultimate archetypal leader and I I
think sometimes people become successful
because of their flaws rather than
despite them and so that's you know
that's a pretty heartening story and
that you shouldn't write yourself off
just because there's something wrong
with you because then everyone would be
written off and then the other part of
what you just described that's
interesting it'll be very interesting to
see how this plays out in the movie is
that you know it reminds me I read this
I I've been very influenced by this
Russian author uh Alexander Sol niten
and Soulja niton found himself in the
most Dreadful circumstances you could
really possibly imagine the most
hopeless circumstances and it wasn't so
much like the story you just described
because a lot of this was imposed on him
rather than being driven in some ways by
his own faults although he admitted to
his faults he was first of all he was on
the Russian front when it was this was
in World War II and Stalin had
formulated a pact with Hitler and so the
Russians were dreadfully and absolutely
unprepared when the Germans came
marching forward then Soulja niton he
was writing some letters to a friend
that were critical of stell's leadership
and the and the authorities got wind of
that and they threw him in a
concentration camp in a prison camp and
then he was in a prison camp for like
decades and he got cancer and you know
he was three4 starved to death and he
had to memorize this damn book and you
couldn't imagine someone more powerless
than Alexander soliton in a more
hopeless situation and yet he formulated
a book in his imagination that
eventually brought the entire communist
Enterprise to a shuttering Halt and the
story you told is of someone who had
wandered pretty damn far off the
straight and narrow right and and who
was out in the bush hiding from the cops
which is pretty hopeless place to be and
you could also imagine that if you had
any sense you'd be pretty down on
yourself in a situation like that you
might think you're the sort of basket
case that could never be redeemed and
yet as you pointed out there was hope
for Redemption even in those
circumstances and the proper decision
led to a whole array of extremely
positive events and so you know maybe no
matter how deep the abyss you manage to
plunge yourself into if you take
responsibility for your flaws and look
up you there's still hope and that'd be
nice if it was true and it sounds like
this movie is laying that out you know
as biographical fact now when is it
coming out September 28th and yeah you
just said exactly what we hope you know
for the film that's the message is
really that there's no one too far gone
you know there's no one that's without
hope and that's really the um the
message that of the film I believe and
did you how has it been finding
Distributors has that been an easy thing
for you guys or have you run into
obstacles on that front I I know the
people who who did the Beyond Freedom
movie for example they had a hard time
finding Distributors partly because it
was a faith-based movie um you have a
much broader track record of Commercial
Success so I imagine that worked in your
favor but how has it been finding
Distributors and what are your
predictions are you happy with the film
and what are your predictions about its
reception and its
success yeah um there's definitely
obstacles to finding Distributors for
for um for our film and I I think other
Faith faith-based films so um we we're
doing a fathom um release which we're
we're grateful for fathom and they've
been fantastic to work with we're right
now I believe we're in 1,00 theaters and
that's growing day by day so we're very
excited about that and um but yeah it
has definitely um you know it's not
without its challenges um there are
Gatekeepers to to um to um what gets out
there and so we're seeing a little bit
of that and but um but we're we're
really excited about how it turned out
it was it's been a couple years work in
progress of like Allin like we talked
about just going all in to make sure we
tell the story yeah the right way and um
in a beautiful way and it is the film
came out just beautifully done every
single person that worked on it did just
above and beyond and um yeah we're very
proud of it not yeah and it's not it
says this is a true story
cuz it's pretty much since Mom and Dad
are alive and we were able to talk to so
many people we we have exactly what you
know it's exactly what they told us you
know had happened and so that's been
real neat to to be able to put that
together and it's interesting like we
talk about a Christian movie but 95% of
this movie is not Christian
because none of them were Christians and
so it wasn't to the end where they
actually embraced this Faith or whatever
and so it's just a real story of like
how
um damaging you know you can make people
can make their lives and my father had
certainly done that you know a lot of
Hope and promise and um you know but
then he just you know went terribly
South and then um you know when all hope
seemed lost uh uh that's when the the
gospel came in there and so it pretty
much ends right when Dad becomes a
Believer he gets the idea like okay now
once he's sobered up I can maybe build
duck calls and then it just you know
obviously we know ends cuz you know here
we are now but uh but that's that story
is from the and it's a Time piece set in
the 60s uh 50s 60s and' 70s so it's kind
of cool going back in in time and seeing
how you know shockingly the places we
shot it very near where they grew up and
it it pretty much looks the same looks
like it's been stuck in time anyway but
the early response like from the people
that have seen it you know we've done
screeners anything like that has been
fantastic and from some press that have
seen it already as we done been doing
these kind of interviews about it it's
been really amazing to see how it's
impacted people already and also I think
you know there's the expectation
sometimes with independent films or
Christian films that they might be you
know cheesy or or whatever and you know
we've we've gotten none of that that's
been really rewarding to see too even
our kids you know whenever we first
showed our kids you know that's that's
the that's the test you're like they're
they're all in their 20s you know are
they going to think this is good and
they were like whoa that was not that's
like a real movie that's not cheesy at
all there and it's not you know a
preachy or anything like that I think
it's just really beautifully done and um
we really really proud of it tell us
tell us again the release
date September 28th and um yeah there's
a website the blind movie.com that you
can go and kind of look for your theater
and all that all right so let me ask you
one final question people are going to
be wondering how this discussion came
out and so I don't remember exactly how
we made initial contact I remember we
met at a corporate event Willie you and
I met at a corporate event that was the
first time we had a chance to speak in
person but do you remember how it is
that we made contact to begin with and
why yes so in a random way so first of
all our son John Luke read your book
years ago and gave it to me and we're
big readers we loveed to read he was
like Mom read this so good 12 rules that
one and then we went back and read out
some meaning and all that and just
started listening to your podcast and
and have loved you and followed you and
and prayed for your family that's a gift
that people give us they tell us like as
we're walking around like oh we pray for
your family and um so we've prayed for
your family over the years and um have
just followed along in your journey and
it was similar in Timeline we came out
in 2012 so similar kind of in Timeline
as well and so um actually a year or so
ago I was in Copenhagen and met a a
friend there in Copenhagen and he said
that you had been there the week before
and we got into a discussion and so um I
asked if he'd share my email with you so
that we could kind of exchange emails
and we did that for a minute I kind of
told you a little bit about our family
but we didn't connect until Willie met
you at the day Ramsey yeah this
conference uh and you gave me such gold
you don't even realize uh what you gave
me which was uh a really funny story
which those are things I cherish so um
so you were going to be there Cory was
not able to come because we had had our
I had planned to come because I wanted
to meet you of course because we had
communicated a little bit but we had a
new grandbaby so of course I had to be
home with our new grandbaby so I didn't
and my and even in our marriage which I
never we're fixing to talk about that
but my status went up because we were on
the same venue together and so and I and
Cory was Cory's like it's Jordan
Peterson and and you and and I knew I
knew what she meant when she said it
like somebody doesn't belong at this big
conference and I yeah and so which I was
kind of like hey here we are so so she
was like well you you know let me know
when you talk to him and all that and so
I was going to meet you before you you
went on St because I had spoken the day
before and then uh but it didn't work
out you were doing something with the
with your mic and so I said we'll just
wait till afterwards so you come off the
stage and and when I saw you which of
course you don't know who I am and
you're like hey and you said what are
you doing at the you said what are you
doing at the conference and I said I
said I'm speaking and for whatever you
said did you speak to the whole group
which really made me laugh because I was
like I think you thought I was like
maybe like the maintenance crew because
you're not going to say you judgment but
you were looking at my appearance and
you were thinking how are you just out
there and what were you talking about
and I said yeah I was speaking to the
whole group and then you asked me what I
was speaking about and I told you Nur
Pro science and Canadian politics and
that was a joke and everybody start yeah
that was good that was good I can see
your face your brain was spinning and so
I was proud that I had you speechless
especially after just talking to you for
a couple hours uh I had you speechless
just for a second while that uh computed
in there so that's how we met and then I
told Corey and then then but you said
yes I remember your wife emailed and uh
and then we Circle back and here we are
right right right right yeah yeah well
Corey I'm very glad to know that a hick
from Northern Alberta takes precedence
in your imagination over a hick from
Louisiana so I would have never
suspected that so it's good to know
anyways all right well look guys that
was great um I I I'm hoping your moving
like blasted out of the park that seems
highly probable to me um for everybody
watching and listening I'm I'm going to
talk to Willie and Corey Robertson for
another half an hour on the daily wire
plus platform we're going to talk about
their marriage I'm very interested in
you know biographical details of
people's lives and uh I'm particularly
interested in how their marriages
survived the you know rapid expansion of
their lives and all the twists and turns
that their lives have taken they
obviously seem to like each other one of
the thing that's quite striking about
talking to you too by the way is that
you're very balanced in your turn taking
in your responses to this interview you
know you never step on each other and I
would say you guys probably talked about
50% of the time each you know of of the
time that that that was devoted to to
your side of the camera it was very
interesting to see that you know how
careful you were about taking each other
into account I also watch couples all
the time when I'm talking with them to
see if there's some underground
resentment or hostility ey rolling
hopefully not that you know and some
competition there for status and that's
always a bad sign within a relationship
like it can be playful and competitive
but real status competition is that's
just not good inside a marriage and so
it was really it was cool to see how on
the same page you were in your
discussions about what had happened
about your family life and how you also
translated that into this very playful
and easy turn taking in the conversation
so anyways that's what the clinical
psychologist didn't be noticed while we
were talking and so God only knows what
I'll notice when we talk on the daily W
side which we're going to do in moments
and so we're going to close this up um
if you guys who are watching and
listening want to uh attend to the
conversation about uh marriage within
the Dark Dynasty please join us on the
daily War plus side of things um and
thank you very much it's been a pleasure
talking to you too um I'm really looking
forward to your movie like I said I hope
it's ridiculously successful and helpful
to people um you certainly wetted my
appetite to go see it I want to see how
this all came about and how you managed
this movie so it'll be fun to see that
and so uh thank you very much for
agreeing to talk to me today and as I
said it's been a pleasure getting to
know you awesome great talking great
talking to you this was awesome thanks
so
much here are these rare
[Music]
stories well how the impossible happen
Miss K carine I
feel well promise to love and be with
you
for this is one of those
stories
[Music]
holy you can do just about anything you
set your mind to for
Robertson but is the drink he becomes a
devil
son
you know that ain't your
brother take why you bringing a Preacher
Man around here I heard you might be
needing
one we're fine I don't think we over I
ain't the problem you're the
problem get
out it's at some point in our lives we
are all going to feel desperately alone
we realize that we ain't never
alone someday you're going to have to
fight for your
marriage and things get
tough this what you
day you
[Music]
f you must be want of K's friend I know
Phil ain't got no goodlooking friends
this my sister well no I was just being
friendly why don't you be friendly in
that direction over there yeah
[Music]
okay